chicken curry
hi I'm an oppa and I welcome you to
Sanjeev Kapoor Khazana and a warm
welcome to a series of cooking for
beginners now let's make a very basic
chicken curry chicken curry is something
that can be made in so many ways every
region has its own peculiar recipe this
one is a basic recipe made all over
India and there is no specific name for
this is it's just plain simple chicken
curry and I'm sure you'll love this
recipe so let's quickly see what all we
need to make this basic chicken curry
for chicken curry we need chicken pieces
which are cut on the bone grated onion
fresh tomato puree oil salt chopped
coriander leaves red chilli powder
turmeric powder cumin powder garam
masala powder garlic paste ginger paste
coriander powder cinnamon stick green
cardamom cloves okay so let me first
explain to you what is an Indian chicken
curry Indian chicken curry is quite high
in seasonings in spices so and there are
a lot of things that actually attribute
to make this chicken curry a hit
preparation now what happens is that we
use some fresh ingredients and we use
some powdered whole spices so I'll just
explain to you in case of fresh
ingredients I have onion and tomato
which is going to be my base of the
gravy but to make this even more tasty I
am going to be adding some whole spices
and some powdered spices so primarily
I'm going to be using onion now onion
here is grated why grated because that
is the easiest way to process the onion
of course to puree tis even easier but
since we are using pureed tomatoes we
need not use pureed onions cause you
need that little bite or you need that
little chunk in the chicken curry
so onions we have grated and tomatoes we
have used nice bright red ripe tomatoes
which we have pureed puree is very
simple just cut the tomatoes as in cut
the eye of the tomato or the cut it into
two to three pieces and blend it in the
mixing so you have this tomato puree and
you have the onion
so first of all we'll first take oil in
a non-stick pan I prefer to work in a
nonstick pan because it surely saves the
efforts and secondly nothing really
sticks to the bottom of the pan so you
not really worried about your chicken
curry or any other preparation getting
burned unless you really leave it in the
pan for our hours and forget totally
about it nothing like this is gonna
happen here so once you add oil to this
we'll add some whole spices in whole
spices will be using cinnamon cloves and
green cardamom Indian preparations or
Indian curries are quite flavorful with
whole spices as well and these
ingredients impart a lot of flavor to
the curry but you don't need to add lots
of it maybe a small piece of cinnamon
green cardamom and some cloves so as you
add this to the oil you'll automatically
get a very nice aroma and this will be
there in the curry all the while so it's
very important to add whole spices and
then there is something that is known as
garam masala powder which is a powder or
a masala which is made by grinding whole
spices not just these three a lot of
other and they are lightly roasted and
then they are powder so this is a garam
masala which is generally used in all
Indian preparations across India so
after you've added the whole spices and
onion now what happens is after you
grate onion it kind of leaves water like
this so try and squeeze out this excess
water cause if there is water in the
onion which means it will take a while
to brown and in the chicken curry you
need nice Brown onions so just squeeze
out this excess water like this so when
you squeeze out this water browning
happens faster and you add it to this
oil and you start sauteing this till the
onion starts browning now sometimes what
happens is while 14 you'll have already
got absorbed by the onion because
initially we had not added a lot of oil
you can easily go on and on with this
much oil as well if you are quite
calorie con
if you think you can easily carry it off
by adding some more oil you could add it
here or in this case if you were to make
it with very less oil you have to keep
on sauteing this till the onion starts
browning once onion starts browning we
will add the other ingredients all the
other spices shouldn't be added before
the onion Browns because once you added
everything else onion will not Brown it
will only stay white but since we want
the onion to Brown we will not add
anything right now
what is basically browning of onion
onion has got a lot of sugar and when it
comes in contact with heat like this
it's caramelizes and that is why brown
onions always stay sweet since the sugar
has got caramelized it tastes sweet and
it also turns golden brown so that is a
very simple logic behind Browning of
onions and of course it also gives a
very good flavor to the curry most of
the biryani is you see have a brown
onion as garnish is only because it
gives good look at the same time it also
tastes nice and in case of chicken curry
we have to brown the onion because in
case of onions like this it stays quite
raw it doesn't give a good mouthfeel so
once you brown the onions
it really gets combined with all the
gravy and it doesn't separate from the
gravy you'll always notice if onions are
left raw as and if they are not truly
sauteed well they will always separate
us and you'll have a tomato grate on one
side and you'll have the onions on one
side so it is always important to saute
the onions to an extent that it starts
Brown okay so you see the onion has
already started browning now is the time
to add other spices we'll first start
off with ginger-garlic paste after you
add ginger-garlic paste
we'll now add turmeric powder
we'll add red chili powder red chili
powder would depend upon the kind of
spicy food you eat at home
we'll add some cumin powder and some
coriander powder now after you add the
whole spices there are chances that it
may burn so you may add very little
water and just mix this or else the
spices would have all got burned since
there was very little oil that we had
used in the masala okay so now this
needs to be sorted for about a minute
after you have done this we have to now
add tomatoes and tomatoes are in pureed
form so we have pureed the tomatoes
we'll add all of it here you see after
you add the tomato puree the color
changes and it goes nice and bright red
now in this case if the tomatoes were
not red this would not have looked very
good it would have given an insipid look
and apart from that the red chili powder
also that we have used is the Kashmiri
when it is not very spicy in it imparts
good color so as far as possible try and
use kashmiri red chilli powder and
bright red tomatoes so this way you'll
have a very good nice bright red chicken
curry now after we've added the tomatoes
will now add salt salt should also be
added soon after the tomatoes because
that way the tomatoes cook faster
because once we add salt to Tomatoes
it automatically leaves all the moisture
and once all the moisture in the tomato
is evaporated the tomatoes are done so
here the actual cooking happens where
the tomatoes have to cook as in tomatoes
if they are left raw the chicken curry
doesn't taste too good so onion has to
Brown and tomatoes have to cook well so
these two things if they happen properly
in a chicken curry is a hit so while
your tomatoes are getting sorted you can
actually get the flavor of the tomatoes
which are slightly raw and after a while
once the oil starts separating you'll
automatically come to know what I mean
by
cooking of tomatoes so right now we have
to saute this for some time till the
actual raw flavor of tomato goes off
okay so now that the tomato is done you
can see little little specks of oil
which are seen on the sides like this so
which means the tomato has already left
the oil and it's now time for us to add
the chicken so we have chicken which we
have used on the bowl so all of this in
this after which we'll add little salt
we have already added some salt to the
tomatoes we should keep that in mind and
not add excess in that case the chicken
curry will go quite salty and right now
we'll add some coriander as well because
fresh coriander when you add it in the
gravy it imparts very good flavor so
after this just makes this nicely now
don't add any water right now because
chicken also has a lot of moisture in it
and it will also leave all the moisture
and giving the curry the required
consistency so just mix this in like
this we'll add some garam masala powder
here this is available most of the
grocery stores once again will mix this
if needed we'll add water but that will
be towards the end and water whatever
that you add to the curry will have to
be hot cause if you add cold water here
the temperature of the gravy will go low
and the chicken may go tough so it's
very important to add hot water to any
curry so let's mix this well yeah that's
perfect and after we have mixed this we
just gonna cover it and let this cook
now chicken curry doesn't take very long
to cook it will take somewhere around 20
minutes and so we'll cover this on
medium heat for 20 minutes and by the
end of it chicken curry will be ready
okay so you see the chicken curry is
almost done I can see the gravy
thickening at the same time the chicken
also looks scope okay so all of this
looks perfect now if you feel that the
curry is thick which even I feel what we
can do is we'll adjust it by adding some
water but after you add water you'll
have to just give it a boil so that it
mixes well and that's it then don't for
the hook it because again it is going to
as far as the curry is concerned this is
done we will garnish this with some more
coriander just like this and it's good
to go
if it's thick like this you can serve it
with nice paratha which I've already
shown you or you can make the simple
boiled rice and so it with that it is
just amazing to have hot chicken curry
and a bowl of plain steamed rice make
this recipe just the way I have made it
and you'll be very proud of yourself
[Music]